Data sharing promises versus reality.
Although many research articles claim that data are available upon request,
the reality often tells a different story.
In practice, when researchers or reviewers attempt to access these datasets,
the data frequently cannot be retrieved.
There are several reasons for this.
Poor data management.
The data may be disorganized, stored on inaccessible devices, or simply lost over time.
This includes loss of contact with the responsible.
Lack of preparation.
The data were never documented or formatted for sharing, making them unusable by others.
Research misconduct.
In some cases, the data never existed, and the claim of availability masks fraudulent practices.
This disconnect between policy and practice highlights the need for proactive,
transparent data sharing through trusted repositories and with appropriate documentation.